Well, welcome to the Get Fit with Jodell podcast and grab your pen and paper and get ready
to take notes and learn from one of the greats because Dr. Raymond Peet is back again answering
your questions and mine today because I have questions today.
So if you're not familiar with Dr. Peat, he's been on the show several times and we all love him.
We love to learn from him.
You can find out more by visiting raypeat.com,
that's R-A-Y-P-E-A-T.
And I highly recommend checking out his articles,
his blog, and also his newsletter.
So you can get that by emailing
raypeatsnewsletter at gmail.com.
And so I'll have that in the show notes
for you guys to check out if you haven't already done so.
We're gonna be talking about his newsletter
that just came out last night.
As soon as I got it in my email,
I was like immediately reading through it,
best newsletter so far that I've read of Dr. Peet.
So we're gonna touch on that I've read of Dr. Pete. So we're going to touch
on that today because it blew my hair back. So I'm so excited, Dr. Pete, to have you on. Thank
you for coming back on the show. Okay, very good. Thank you.
So yeah, I've got quite a few listener questions as well. And I've got my own questions today based
on the newsletter and just some things going on. So I'm excited to get
started. As you guys know, I've been banned from YouTube. So
this is only available on audio. So be sure to share this with
someone you know, that's going to benefit from it. They're not
going to find it on YouTube right now. They're only going to
find it on podcast players. So be sure to share and if you guys
have more questions for Dr. Pete,
I can't post like I was on YouTube and ask for questions.
So if you hear this podcast
and your question wasn't answered,
just email me at getfitwithjodell at gmail.com
and I'll be sure to get it in the queue
for the next podcast.
So let's start right off because Dr. Pete,
your newsletter was, like I said, one of my favorites.
I lost my mom to cancer at 17. And what I do today is because of what I didn't understand
about her health and how to help her because I was so young. And she did all the mainstream
cancer killing therapies. And after watching her go through chemo, surgery, radiation, more chemo, then
finally out of desperation, alternative treatments out of Mexico that didn't work when her, because
her body was too wrecked from the cancer killing therapies, I'm convinced that it was the therapies
that killed her, not the cancer. And so when I read your latest newsletter, the carcinogen metabolism, it was just phenomenal.
One thing that you said in the newsletter really jumped out at me.
There are many substances that can inhibit the inflammatory degenerative processes acting
at multiple levels.
These substances tend to be synergistic so that a great number of
substances can be safely used at the same time. This kind of supportive therapy has
nothing in common with the ruling paradigm of cancer treatment. It is reinforcing the
organism's state of health rather than attacking the disease of cancer. That's what I want to help people do,
is reinforce their state of health
rather than attacking the disease of cancer.
That's what I want people listening to this today
to take home is that there's a lot of therapies out there
that are traditional mainstream,
but there's also a lot of adjunct therapies
that are synergistic and at least could support our organism and our
host immune system while they're undergoing these treatments. It's not to say that people can't
undergo radiation and chemo and things like that, but I think I agreed with you that they're
attacking the disease of cancer rather than reinforcing the organism's state of health, which should be what's most
important. So I just really like this. Yeah, go ahead.
Their basic mistake, mainstream medicine now for about 100 years has been committed to the idea that cancer, a mutation, is something alien to
the human being.
But the mutations are the attempt to survive and remain part of the human organism.
They are our cells that are struggling and if you focus on killing these cells
that are already very weak and damaged you forget that what kills them kills or
injures the rest of the human cells. They are so similar, it's kind of like
trying to, it's more possible to kill an invasive fungus, but still things that
kill fungus or amoebas for example, are always harmful to the human host.
If you look at the very few people
who have studied untreated cancer patients,
starting as far as I know in the 1950s
with the University of California professor, Hardin Jones,
with the University of California Professor Hardin Jones. He looked at people who, for some reason,
refused treatment after being diagnosed.
And these people almost always lived longer
than the thoroughly treated people,
the people who respected treatment.
And since those aren't taken into account,
everyone who is diagnosed with cancer
essentially gets the killing treatment.
And if you really did a control,
you would compare the absence of treatment to a particular treatment, but I've read through many volumes of the Cancer Research Journal,
and invariably they fail to take into account the possibility that the treatment ever kills anyone.
If hundreds and hundreds of articles absolutely insist that everyone who dies, dies from cancer,
they don't even consider the possibility that the treatment increase the death.
Absolutely. Yeah. I mean, like you mentioned, it's about reinforcing health.
How can you reinforce the state of health in the organism if you're attacking
both the good and the bad cells with some therapy?
It just doesn't make sense.
There's a big debate out there about taking supplements when undergoing cancer
treatment. But my job as a nutritionist to support is to support that host immune system and reinforce
the state of health. And so there's this debate that you can't take antioxidants during a radiation
therapy or during a chemo treatment. And I can see both sides. I can see how, yeah, the supplement,
And I can see both sides. I can see how, yeah, the supplement,
depending on which one it is,
could interfere with the oxidant support of the cell
or the antioxidant capability
that you're trying to kill off
with the radiation or whatever.
But at the same time, what about all the good?
Like you've got this one little area that's cancerous,
but you've got the 90% of you that's really good.
Shouldn't we support that?
And shouldn't we come at it from a standpoint
of helping rather than harming?
Yeah, and the treatment industry has covered up the fact
that there is no such thing as a local,
a purely local cancer treatment.
For example, the focusing radiation beam,
they say if we aim it at the cancer,
the rest of your body isn't affected.
But experiments show that, for example,
they noticed that exposing mice to x-rays caused them to
go into heat preparing to mate.
The explanation was that they had excited their pituitary.
So someone did the proper control and radiated their feet
and found that that caused them to go into heat.
And the same with any very serious damage
to any part of the body.
It spreads signals of the damage to all parts of the body.
So that in Seattle Seattle there was this idea of pregnant women who had a full set of dental x-rays even though
they shielded their abdomen, their babies were born underweight and
showing that the stress damage signals affected every part of the
body just from supposedly exposing the head and jaw to x-rays.
Yeah, no, that makes, that's, you know, you don't hear about this stuff. All you hear
about is like the different doctors saying,
no, you can't, this is the only path.
We only have this.
This is our approach is like kill, kill, kill.
And there's so many other avenues.
Like I loved in your newsletter
where you were mentioning things like mTOR
and things that could inhibit mTOR include caffeine
and aspirin and lidocaine and vitamin D and flavonoids.
Like, can you briefly like fill us in layman's terms,
like how does mTOR work within some sort of like
inhibitory action with cancer
and why these things are important?
Yeah, mTOR is a phosphorylating, activating enzyme.
And this particular enzyme activates all of the growth processes.
So for normal growth, it's, all of the growth promoting factors
have to know when to stop.
And if you have stress going on,
circulating lactic acid, for example,
for any kind of systemic stress,
lactic acid is enough to keep the mTOR
activating growth processes
without the appropriate need for it.
And so lactic acid is carcinogenic
by not allowing the body to turn off growth when it should.
And it turns out that stressed tissues produce lactic acid.
So you get a vicious circle.
Yeah.
And there are like you,
I appreciated that in your newsletter, you did mention,
I mean, there are some of the flavonoids
known as antioxidants, like absorbic acid
and things like that, that they can become an issue,
like reducing agents for stuff like radiation
and stuff like that.
So are there certain supplements that people can do
if they've been diagnosed
and they're undergoing these treatments,
they choose to go that route?
And are there different ones they shouldn't do?
shouldn't do? Yeah, in the right amount the antioxidants will actually be beneficial but when they get inside the cell a typical antioxidant like ascorbic acid or some of the flavonoids like phycetin are no longer reducing agents, they no longer
are known by donating electrons, but they become oxidizing agents and keep the cell
from having an excess of electrons. And one of the most basic features of cancer is
that they have an excess of electrons. If you simply shut off the oxygen supply,
you'll shift over to lactic acid production because electrons become excessive and will turn pyruvic acid into lactic acid,
with all of the cell activating effects.
Some very, very well-informed,
leading biological thinkers are still confused on the issue.
They still think that more electrons
will be good for cancer patients,
but in fact, the failure to oxidize,
meaning that your cells have too many electrons,
that's the essence of cancer,
and why the increase of lactic acid is a universal feature of cancer.
Okay, yeah, and so are there, so it's best to get flavonoids from food. I love that you said that in
your newsletter. Are there certain ones, let's say someone listening to this has been
diagnosed with cancer and they're undergoing, maybe they've chosen to go these therapies such
as radiation or chemo, where would you steer them? What protocol or suggestions would you give them
to help them reinforce their state of health rather than just do the attack?
reinforce their state of health rather than just do the attack?
The reason doctors advise against using some supplements like vitamin E is that they are wanting to create free radical oxidation,
which always results from an excess of electrons, activating catalytic
iron, for example, to create free radicals.
I knew someone who was taking protective substances, and the doctor prescribed the standard course of chemotherapy and said
it would be no more than, I think it was three doses of it, absolutely three doses was all
that would be needed.
But after three doses, he said, well, we need another three doses. And after that three doses, he said, well, you need
another three doses. And she said, I finally got him to admit that he had previously said only three would be needed. And he explained that your hair hasn't fallen out
and you're not anemic.
And those were the judge, the basis for judging.
You have to radically harm the whole organism
before you're satisfied that the chemotherapy is working.
She ended up looking for thermal therapy,
hyperthermia to treat the cancer,
which there's a lot of research
showing that getting the body temperature
up to just a little above 41 degrees Celsius
will kill cancer cells without harming healthy cells.
If you keep feeding the person
so they don't get hypoglycemia damage.
But she went to a place that advertised hyperthermia,
but the government required that they give a minimal dose, they said,
of x-rays along with the hyperthermia.
And after a couple of doses of the treatment,
I got her to inquire how they were judging
that she had reached a hyperthermic state and they
told her, oh the computer does that. No thermometers involved, just absolute
mystical computer knowledge. And then she asked how many rads was she getting and
I think it was 800 radads to her whole pelvis which included
the intestine and she was getting classical radiation sickness which sets
in around a whole body dose of about 400 or 500 rads so she had had about three times the dose that causes radiation sickness.
And very quickly after that died from radiation sickness, not from cancer. Yeah, it's like logic has gone by the wayside when it comes to our medical system. It's just like
it's a sad approach because there I think there are protocols and suggestions that people can do
to reinforce. So like in your newsletter progesterone and you mentioned vitamin D,
can you talk about that? Yeah, both of those systemically lower inflammation. So they're just as
good for treating COVID as for cancer or psychiatric diseases or a cold because what they do is turn the body towards healthy energy production through oxygen
and by reducing the inflammation they are letting the body restore itself.
Wonderful.
restore itself.
Wonderful. Now, go ahead.
Antihistamines are another pretty safe way to do that.
And in a previous newsletter,
I reviewed some of the articles
showing the benefits of exercise.
Yeah.
And they found that the good things about
exercise that help you maintain good muscles, good hormone balance, all kinds
of good health points. They found that only when the exercise was sufficient to
raise your body temperature did it produce that
anti-inflammatory restorative effect.
And if they raised the body temperature to that point, the same temperature that adequate
exercise produces, they got just as much anti-inflammatory effect.
So it's the body temperature falling below normal
that is a basic activator of inflammation.
And all of the major carcinogens,
by reducing oxygen metabolism,
lower the body temperature.
And so necessarily result in systemic inflammation.
So important to keep that thyroid working
and keep that body temperature where it should be
in cancer prevention then that sounds like.
So going back to the vitamin D,
I kind of had something I wanted to really bring up
because there's controversy out there.
A lot of people are not on the bandwagon
of vitamin D supplementation.
They feel like you should just get it from the sun.
But what about these, as a nutritionist,
I'm seeing people that as much as I would love them
to go outside, they're going out covered up, they're wearing sunscreen, or
maybe they're only going out long enough to walk around the
block. So there's not to mention the fact that there's published
data that now there's nanoparticles being sprayed in
our atmosphere, they're blocking the sun's rays. So that leads me
to believe that we do need some form of vitamin D supplementation
in certain people that just will not go outside.
What are your thoughts on that?
I mean, are you for vitamin D with K2 supplementation
or do you feel like it should just be from the sun?
Ideally, it would be from the sun,
but I've talked to people in Saudi Arabia
and Latin America. There's a
tremendous like an epidemic or worse of vitamin D deficiency in the
traditionally Muslim and Catholic countries. Women in particular. Well, the Saudi Arabians, even
the men, were pretty much total body covers, but the women don't let any skin
be exposed to the sunlight, and so they have a terrible vitamin D deficiency.
The same in Mexico, people are,
even the new generations that aren't following
the prudish old coverup practices,
they have dark skin and don't want to get a darker skin and so they
just for cosmetic purposes like to be protected from the sun. I used to sunburn terribly from, I guess, my 20s through my 60s.
At 7,000 feet altitude,
I found that I didn't sunburn at all.
I could work outside for hours without turning bright red. And I've heard other people say that
when they take vitamin D,
they can then expose themselves to the sun
without burning or even just a moderate degree of tanning.
So if you are avoiding the sunlight for some reason, then you absolutely need to supplement
vitamin D. It turns on all of the protective anti-inflammatory processes.
I agree.
I mean, I would love, like you said, ideally, I would love all of my clients to spend as
much time outside that they can, but it's just, it seems like I can't get people to do that.
So the next best thing is like, I find a good quality vitamin D to get them on.
And yeah, like you said, myself included, I don't burn.
Also, I think that's due to low PUFAs.
I have found that eliminating PUFAs a long time ago, I don't burn.
And I think that has a lot to do with the body's
inflammatory response with the sun too.
Would you say?
Yeah, polyunsaturated fatty acids act as an antenna,
ultraviolet light excites those molecules,
causes them to have excited electrons that then spread inflammation
to other less sensitive substances.
So they're like the antenna to spread ultraviolet damage if you have. A rabbit experiment years ago, they shaved rabbits
and exposed them to ultraviolet similar to sunlight.
And the ones, the rabbits that had a PUFA-free diet
didn't get wrinkly skin.
The ones on a high polyunsaturated fatty acid diet
got very wrinkled after exposing their skin to sun to radiation, ultraviolet.
Nice. Yeah, I know that. Go ahead, what were you going to say?
Just that there are several things that will
will sensitize you with a bad diet high in PUFA is one of the
most age promoting factors.
Absolutely. Yeah. So I wanted to ask one more thing before we
jump into questions, because in your newsletter, there was
something that stuck out to me that I kind of just briefly
touched on, but I wanted to get your thoughts on it. So you had
mentioned that, although the great majority of cancers have
clear environmental causes, the carcinogenic pollution caused by
governments and large corporations is ignored. And so
it's like putting the blame on the defective genes of the victim.
So I wanted to talk about the pollution caused by governments.
Now, I had mentioned that I am seeing data on the fact that there is grid patterns in our sky.
There's these clouds that make an X.
There's lines in the sky that they're clearly spraying something into our atmosphere,
there's published data on it.
Do you think that this is
something we need to be concerned about,
that whatever the nanoparticles that they're
spraying are dimming our sun's rays?
Is this part of that heavy metal pollution
we're exposed to depending on what they're spraying?
That has been planned research for a long time. Bill
Gates was one of the promoters of it and when the public heard about it they
said oh it's just research we don't really plan to go ahead with that, but I don't believe them. I'm sure they're continually working on it.
Yeah, I want people to be aware. I want you guys to start looking up and just doing your own
research because I think they've got us programmed to look down at our phones so we don't see what's
going on in our skies, but I highly recommend checking out
geoengineeringwatch.org because there's a lot of published data there and it's not conspiracy
because there's there's research on it. So just be aware there there's changes in our sky that
are affecting our health too and I believe some of that heavy metal nanoparticles could be part of
that carcinogenic pollution that you're talking about too.
And one source of pollution that is often forgotten
or covered up is that the Pentagon is the world's
biggest single source of pollution.
They can dump anything they want to,
anywhere they want to.
And they've killed and injured many military people.
The Gulf War syndrome was just part of it.
But burning toxic agents in open dumps in when a war is going on. The soldiers are being horribly exposed
to these toxins. Wow, yeah, something that's, I'm glad you brought that up. I'm going to look
into that too because I wasn't even aware of that. So, well, I think we will jump into questions here
because I could talk to you about this
stuff all day, but I know everybody wants me to get to their questions.
So Kylie is our first one on the list today.
She asks, or she's kind of explaining that she has low TSH, free T3 is low, free T4 is
low.
She's tried Cytomel and NDT, but immediately she lost her period. It took her five
months to get her period back while on Cytomel, but she was still hyper symptomatic, so she stopped
it. She's had thyroid issues her whole life, so she's wondering if it was her nervous system that
needed to adjust. Should she have stayed on it, or is there something else she should do, Dr. Peet?
It's important to know that the activation of the thyroid
and to make your liver able to detoxify hormones
that are in excess.
And so you can, if you have heavy menstruation
or continuous hemorrhaging, you can turn it off quickly
by increasing your T3 intake. continuous hemorrhaging, you can turn it off quickly
by increasing your T3 intake. But normally, the body produces only probably a maximum
of two or three micrograms per hour of T3
by its own conversion from thyroxine.
of T3 by its own conversion from thyroxine.
And people often, the worst thing is to start out taking maybe your whole day's dose all at once
on an empty stomach before breakfast.
And that for sure will give you,
the message goes to your liver
that you have a gigantic excess of thyroid.
And so you activate the liver to get rid of the excess thyroid. And that means that after
doing that for a while, just a couple of weeks, there's enough to see it happening. Your liver, in just 12 hours after you've taken
that one morning dose, your liver will create
extreme hypothyroidism because it has learned
to get rid of the excess, but then when you don't keep adding it, your liver pushes you
to a very low level. That's one of the reasons a mixed product like natural desiccated thyroid,
a product like Armour thyroid USP, for example, has a reasonable balance,
the same balance that you would normally produce
with your own thyroid.
Or a synthetic such as Sinoplus or
Obotrol
about four or five parts of thyroxine
to each part of T3.
So the T3 can activate your processes
and the T4 is available to continue
to keep up your T3 level
without at any time forcing you
into the hyperthyroid state that you get when you take
even 10 micrograms of SIDAML at once will give you the signal of excess that will
lead to reduced thyroid function. Yeah, and she didn't specify how much she was taking.
So that's another thing.
Maybe if she started with too high of a dose and then also
like since the NDT is going to have some T3 in there along
with the cytomel, maybe it was just too much for her and she
should just look at starting with like a really low five
micrograms of the cytomel or something.
What do you think about that?
Yeah, five micrograms with a meal is okay.
It's more than you would want on an empty stomach,
but the meal slows its absorption
over a period of about two or three hours.
And it's very important to check things like your temperature, pulse rate, blood pressure,
and so on, and to not expect things to be normal immediately.
Watch for changes to gradually increase over a period of two weeks or more.
And many people want to see quick results, and that leads up to getting very disturbed
ups and downs of the metabolic rate.
It makes it very hard to find the right level.
So traditionally, people who have really studied
thyroid function like Rhoda Barnes
would take several months usually to determine
what their correct dose was.
And the correct dose varies typically fourfold
just by seasonal changes in day length.
I found that in the winter,
I needed two grains of armor thyroid
to maintain my temperature and heart rate.
And that gradually, starting in the spring,
decreased to half a grain per day
to maintain the same level of function and metabolic rate.
Nice, yeah, that's it.
I like that you mentioned the part
about her taking it with a meal because
I think there is a misconception out there. Most thyroid medications are told to take
you know on an empty stomach right when you wake up 20 to 30 minutes before eating. And
I like that what you're saying is they really need to take it with food. I've always thought
that that would be more efficient slowing down how quickly it's absorbed.
And so that makes a lot more sense than on an empty stomach.
I've heard practically all pharmacists and doctors give that, take it on an empty stomach in the
morning recommendation. But I tried to find out what their reasoning was.
There is no reasoning.
They based their thought on how do you get efficient absorption.
They went to think about not wasting any of the thyroid. So you do get the full amount that you consumed if your stomach is empty.
It shows up in your bloodstream right away. But the thyroid never works that way naturally. It
it seeps out as you need it.
So if you have enough food to keep your blood sugar up
and your stress hormones low,
your body will continue to convert thyroxine to T3
exactly the right amount, but it is a continuous moment by moment process.
Absolutely without any biological sense to recommend taking your day's dose on an empty stomach.
Okay, so next question Zed asked, okay this is kind of a long question here. So Dr. Pete was asked in the past if he believes one can regrow hair back to their juvenile
hairline.
He replied that it may not be possible.
I would love to know if someone was willing to dedicate all of their time to this, this
is a cool guy, what further steps could be taken after addressing TSH, temperature, vitamin D, and calcium? For
example, microneedling, scalp massage, or even, you know, hanging upside down, maybe a high dose
of vitamin K to decalcify the scalp, anything that he thinks could help. Thank you so much.
Scalp massage definitely helps hair loss from a variety of causes.
Even alopecia areata can be helped by massage.
Even though that's an autoimmune spotting loss of hair, the massage helps to normalize
getting the cell energy back up.
But I've never known any single individual
who wanted to put in the necessary time.
Really could involve basically everything you do,
but it isn't benefiting only your scalp
because people, you've probably heard of the earlobe crease.
People who are bald have a very high incidence
of a crease across their earlobe.
And that crease happens to be an indicator of susceptibility to heart disease.
And so there's a known association between circulatory system health and good hair growth. So the things that
help to restore the health of your follicles are also helping every other part of your body.
I love that. I think it goes back to like grandma's logic of like brush your hair a hundred
times because people I think they're afraid when you're's logic of like brush your hair a hundred times because people
I think they're afraid when you're losing your hair, you're kind of afraid to brush your hair
because you think it's going to, you're just going to brush it and pull it out. But we just brushing
your hair, like a scalp massage, or, you know, there's a company that makes a Derma tool for
your head where you just kind of like stimulate the scalp. I think those are going to be more
beneficial because what you're doing is you're drawing blood to
that area increasing circulation. So you know, like
brushing your hair, you might, yeah, you might lose some hairs
the first few times you do it, but then you're going to start
stimulating that blood flow and hopefully improving the hairline
as well. Yeah.
Yeah, and putting your fingers on your scalp without moving them against the skin,
but wiggling your fingers
so that you're moving the skin around.
That kind of 15 minutes per day,
and that amount of massage
very significantly improve hair growth.
Getting your temperature up to normal,
I think is a big part of it.
I looked at the normal range of temperatures in the brain,
and it happens that the highest temperatures
are towards the middle and rear of the brain.
And that for best functioning,
the highest part of the brain,
the frontal lobes of the cortex
have to be slightly cooler than the central part of the brain.
They have to be able to be quiet rather than overactive. hair cover on the top and back of your head
is helping to insulate your head
so that you don't lose temperature so easily
where you have heavy hair growth.
But the fact that hair doesn't grow on the forehead
is probably associated
with the fact that your frontal lobes should be cooler.
And so your forehead is like a radiator
that helps to maintain that gradient of temperature
inside your brain,
optimizing your prefrontal cortex functions.
I really love that my brain is really warm right now
because you make me think so much.
So like just listening to you share that your knowledge
like makes my brain like feel warmer.
So that's cool.
Okay, so Zed had one more question in his email.
He said, when my heart rate increases
after exercise gets a little strenuous,
the inside of my nose becomes very cold
and painful to breathe through and almost closes up.
Does Dr. Pete know what could cause this
and how to avoid it?
Yeah, that's too much adrenaline.
I used to notice that if I was
in a study project, for example,
and went too long drinking coffee,
I would get that sensation that my nose membranes
dried out and cooled, and my sinuses
out and cooled and my sinuses extended that feeling of too much air in contact with them.
I think it's that the high adrenaline simply reduces circulation to your nose and sinus membranes. Sounds like maybe his exercise, maybe not as strenuous,
maybe just moving your body without getting too much adrenaline going, yeah?
Yeah. Not doing things that tend to raise your heart rate too much,
but the kind of muscle exercise that heats up your muscles
and then they heat your whole body
and increase the temperature.
So lifting weights or using dumbbells
enough to warm up your muscles, raise your body temperature,
won't necessarily make you breathe any harder. Yeah, excellent. I love that. Okay, so I can't
pronounce this name, but this it starts with a K, and it says, what are Dr. Pete's thoughts on high dose vitamin E? Is it safe to take up to 3,000 IUs per day?
Thank you.
There have been tests,
and it was right around 3,000 or 4,000 units a day
that would cause the vitamin E to produce diarrhea.
It was simply a physical overload
that probably irritated the intestine.
And they found that you couldn't absorb
above a certain limit.
Produced diarrhea and was useless.
But they didn't see any damage from doses up to that point.
But you have to remember that the products
they call vitamin E has changed pretty continuously
through technology, the 20s and 30s,
when it was known as a fertility vitamin. That's where the
name came from, tocopherol, offspring bearing. And so a deficiency was defined as the sterility
sterility level. And that worked because vitamin E protects against estrogen.
Estrogen is the anti-progesterone,
anti-fertility agent.
And so progesterone and vitamin E were found
in the late 1930s
to be working together to protect against estrogen and so to improve fertility
and as a side effect of many other changes.
But at that point, for various reasons,
the estrogen industry didn't want vitamin E to
be known as a pro-fertility, anti-estrogen chemical.
So they promoted the idea that it was defined as its antioxidant potency, which corresponded
to the D-alpha-tocopherol concentration. And the total vitamin E effect was considered only the antioxidant potency.
And for a time, the vitamin E value was defined as the D-alpha-tocopherol content. Now it has changed again, and so they specified the proportion of all of the
isomers of vitamin E. And the definition has changed along with it so the way it's prepared is extremely different.
For example, the octocosinol portion used to be a major part of the function, and now
that is removed, changing the consistency of the vitamin E and also apparently reducing its biological values.
So that starting 20 or 30 years ago, there has been a campaign to warn people about the
potential dangers of high intake of vitamin E. And since the benefits were established
with different products and different definitions
about 60 or 70 years ago,
we don't really have any good research evaluating what's going
on with present products of vitamin E. So I think it's best
to be very cautious with your dosing.
Very good.
Okay, so Dopa Siva or Dapo Siva maybe is the name,
asks about blackstrap molasses unsulfured.
Is it a good source of carbs, potassium and minerals?
Thinks a million.
Years ago, I noticed that it had sort of a smoky taste,
and so I investigated how it's made. And when you put your crude cane juice
through the crystallization process, the brown stuff gradually, it doesn't crystallize.
And so as you crystallize the pure sucrose molecules,
you're separating a gummy brown substance.
And it turns out that the standard way to make sugar
is to burn the cane fields It turns out that the standard way to make sugar
is to burn the cane fields
and then to cut down the bare stalks and grind that up to make your cane juice.
And if you burn the cane before you extract the sugar,
If you burn the cane before you extract the sugar,
you're going to get a lot of smoky material mixed in with the various nutrients
that produce the brown stuff.
And so heat, overexposure to heat
will also cause the amino acids in the natural cane juice to react with the glucose
in the juice.
That produces toxic brown material.
And so the brownness at least reflects the heat breakdown products involving amino acids.
And probably most often involves some smoke resulting from burning the cane.
So the fact that a lot of people are having allergy-like reaction to Boxstrap. I think it could steer
people away from it. Okay, good to know. All right, these last couple of questions here we'll take
and then we'll save the rest for next time since we're running short on time here. But these
last questions are related. They're both asthma questions. So Constantine asks, Hi, Dr. Pete,
I'm a 23 year old male, and I've had bad asthma since I was two,
my asthma is serious enough that I need to use some type of
inhaler daily. When it's very bad, I use an inhaled corticosteroid.
And when it's more manageable, I use a rescue inhaler that is androgenic agonist.
I know these are both harmful drugs to use daily,
so I would very much like to get off of them.
I've been experimenting with ciproheptadine,
pregnenolone, and progesterone as alternatives,
but none have been able to prevent me
from needing my asthma inhaler.
Do you have any ideas on what I can do
to get off the inhaler or alternatively
on what I can do to mitigate the harm done
by using the inhalers?
Checking your foods, a very careful elimination diet
A very careful elimination diet can usually identify foods that make the symptoms worse. By stimulating different parts of the intestine, researchers have found that you can produce produce all sorts of psychosomatic conditions. Everything from asthma to migraines to epilepsy
can be provoked by irritating certain parts of the intestine
and so constipation, diarrhea of some types
and anything that tends to cause pressure or irritation in the lower
intestine is a major cause of asthma. And so, looking for foods that are hard to digest,
for foods that are hard to digest, you can often get a good diet by eliminating certain foods.
For example, green salads, lettuce or spinach leaves that aren't cooked are extremely irritating
to the intestine, promote bacterial growth, endotoxin production, as well as just direct
irritation from the nature of the leaf.
And sometimes simply eliminating salads and undercooked vegetables will do it. The right kind of fiber will sometimes stop the whole problem by getting food to move
through you faster before it can reach that degree of pressure and irritation.
That's so interesting. Yeah, I would definitely second that. The gut is always a good place to go when dealing with anything
that's causing a reaction in the body as well as the how
about balancing blood sugar? Do you think that would matter
if he's going a long stretch of time without eating? Would
balancing his blood sugar, would that help the body calm
down too? Exactly. Both the chemical irritants
and the mechanical irritants are ineffective if you have high blood sugar or adequate blood sugar.
But for example, if you have an inflatable balloon in the animal's intestine.
And the animal has good blood sugar. If you blow up the balloon, nothing happens.
But if its blood sugar is a little on the low side,
you blow up the balloon,
you can produce instant asthma symptoms
because the autonomic nervous system is destabilized by low sugar.
Same with allergens. Low blood sugar makes you allergic to more things.
Yeah, I would agree with that too. So Ruth also asked a question on asthma.
She said, what are Dr. Peet's views on the use of those inhalers?
Her sleep is interrupted by hot flashes throughout the night as well.
What are your views on inhalers and why her sleep is interrupted by hot flashes?
What is interrupted by the hot flashes?
Sleep.
Yeah, her sleep is interrupted by hot flashes throughout the night? Yeah, progesterone, by maintaining your body temperature
and oxygen use during the night,
will improve the depth and restfulness of your sleep.
If your progesterone is low,
and usually if your thyroid is low,
your blood sugar is unstable,
falls too low during the night
and will trigger all kinds of symptoms,
hot flashes, night sweats,
nocturnal asthma and nocturnal epilepsy
are very well known consequences
of the falling blood sugar during the night.
Painful things become more painful at night
because of falling blood sugar.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah, definitely the progesterone can help
with hot flashes just in general in the night.
So there was something else that you said
that made me wanna, what were you gonna say?
Experimenters have used something like a cup full
of cornstarch as a way to give pure carbohydrates
at bedtime and I found that even though
that was not good nutrition,
it would prevent the hot flashes
by giving you a constant supply of glucose during the night.
That's so interesting.
Like I've had myself included,
people mentioned that corn in general,
it seems like they sleep better
when they have corn for dinner.
Do you have any thoughts on this?
Because I don't really love corn for the fact of it does.
It seems to be a food that can elevate
blood sugar sometimes too high in certain people.
But I'm hearing that it actually can help with sleep.
Would you have any reason why?
Yeah, it doesn't have, for example, gluten.
If they're eating corn,
they might stop eating so much wheat and gluten.
And especially if the corn is in the form of tortillas
or lime processed corn,
that becomes very anti-inflammatory.
Just having some oatmeal or oat bran mush bedtime,
those are often very protective,
keeping your blood sugar up.
That's so interesting.
Yeah, I don't have corn very often,
but I find that if I have it for dinner,
like you mentioned, like homemade corn tortillas
or something, it's like my sleep is just phenomenal.
So I find that interesting.
Okay, that's all we have for today
because we'll wrap up here
and we'll save the rest for next time.
But Dr. Pete, this is always so enlightening and educational
and I love hearing your views on so many different topics. So we'll get to more questions next time,
but you guys check out his newsletter. That's RayPete's newsletter at gmail.com. If you missed
this one, if you haven't signed up yet, I highly recommend going ahead and ordering it and maybe
just shoot him an email. And I bet they'll send that one to you that they just put out because it is really excellent.
Dr. Pete, that carcinogenic metabolism was, was really a big eye opener. So thank you
for that. And thank you for being a part of this today.
Okay. Thank you.
Okay. Bye for now. We'll talk soon.
Hey guys, are you in the Midwest? Are you in the East Coast? Are you in Brazil? Are
you in Asia? It doesn't matter where you are. I would love to work with you as your
nutritionist. And so just to let you know I offer nutrition
consulting worldwide.
You can work with me anywhere.
I have clients all over the world and I love to spend time over the internet with each
one of them figuring out their specific needs.
So your specific needs, what deficiencies are you having, what symptoms are you dealing
with daily that we can address for you.
So that's what I as a nutrition detective like to get to the bottom of. I ask you a ton of questions. We meet over zoom or
over FaceTime, whatever is convenient for you, and we discuss all of your specific
needs. If you would like to work with me just shoot me an email getfitwithjodell
at gmail.com. That's getfit, g-e-t-f-i-t, w-i-t-H-J-O-D-E-L-L-E at gmail.com.
And let's set up a 15 minute free call for you, just to see if I'm a good fit for you
as a nutrition therapy practitioner.
Again, email me, getfitwithjodell at gmail.com and let's get you set up feeling better, lose
that unwanted weight that you have going on,
lose those symptoms that you have hanging around,
and optimize your health as best we can.
So a common question I get is what are some of my favorite
supplements that I take daily? Well, here are my faves, just to name a few.
I love a good magnesium glycinate for stress and sleep.
I love a good multi-mineral to make sure I have all the raw materials for my thyroid
and my metabolic processes.
I like BCAAs, branched chain amino acids, when I can't get to adequate protein in the
midst of a busy day.
And I never go a day without my vitamin D3 and K2 drops under my tongue.
You know, supplements can be pricey and in a perfect world, wouldn't it be nice to have
a healthcare practitioner assign your specific supplement needs to you and find the one bio-individual
supplement needs that
match your body? Well that's where Fullscript comes in, my online supplement
dispensary. Fullscript is where I can recommend the perfect supplements for
you when we consult, but also if we don't consult you can simply go to my
Fullscript online dispensary and find all of your favorite supplements at 15
to 20% off what you would
normally pay in the store.
So Fullscript has lots of my favorite brands like Quicksilver Scientific and Nutrasol and
Apex Energetics and so much more, hundreds more in fact, even protein powders, teas,
toothpaste and natural beauty products, really great brands that I myself love and recommend.
So to try my
Fullscript out for yourself, here's a couple of options. You can, number one,
click the link in the description to visit my Fullscript page or you can
enter us.fullscript.com welcome Jay Fitzwater. Let me say that again. That's us dot full script FULL
SCR IPT comm slash welcome slash J as in JoDell Fitzwater
FITZ
WATER or if that's too long and lengthy you can email me at get fit with JoDell at gmail.com
And I can set you up with a free Fullscript account where I can help navigate
the right supplements for you.
So Fullscript is discreet with fast shipping that drops right to your doorstep, no more
running out to the local natural health food store when time's just not on your side.
The world simply does not offer enough raw materials naturally anymore to combat the
modern stressors.
And that's
why finding the right supplements that work can and will help you. Try my full
script today, save money and start feeling better.
I'm a simpleton really but I will say when it comes to skin care and hair care
that there are a couple products that I can say have really moved the needle for my skin and hair and also are
Easy to use they smell fantastic and they're all natural and that is amoreggione
skincare and hair care amoreggione is a wild crafted herb based skincare line and
Recently they've launched a new shampoo and conditioner line, which is phenomenal. My hair has never felt better.
So if you're looking for really great,
wild crafted herbal based skincare,
I can't say enough about Anne Marie Gianni.
I love their charcoal mask and their pearl illuminating mask.
I'm a sucker for masks whenever I just wanna feel like
I'm having a spa day and giving myself some vitamin P,
right? And so this is something you can get
really inexpensive they've got a nice little trial kit you can pick up for as little as $19.99
and it comes with a slew of little tiny travel toiletries you can take with you from their
cleanser to their anti-aging serum to the little masks. I love them and by the way you can
also purchase small amounts of their shampoo and conditioner to give it a try before you buy the
big ones. So check out Anne-Marie Gianni Skin Care. I've got a link in the show notes below
and get the special trial offer that's only good for a limited amount of time.
Try my favorite skin care. I think it'll become your favorite skin care too.
offer that's only good for a limited amount of time.
Try my favorite skincare.
I think it'll become your favorite skincare too.